Easter2018.mp3

[00:00:01] At line it's our tradition when we read a portion of Scripture to ask you to stand in honor of God's word. So would you do that please. I just want to say right at the top. We've got a very crowded platform today and I can't get to you all. So you know normally I paced around a little bit so I'm watching you in the corner Mark I got my eyes on you. All right.

[00:00:22] Listen to God's word from Colossians Chapter 3 if then you've been raised with Christ. Seek the things that are above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things that are above not on things that are on earth for you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears then you also will appear with him in glory. This is the word of God for the people of God.

[00:00:53] Please be seated. This year I wanted to try to figure out what the culture thinks about Easter and so to do that I went Chris I Easter card shopping.

[00:01:04] How many of you sent out Easter cards. Can I see your hands. All right it's time you do that. So I went shopping for Easter cards and I bought 12 cards. Now I don't have a lot of money so I just bought 12 cards or a few more there. And I want to kind of give you an idea of the theology of Easter according to the culture that we live in today. According to the cards that were on the racks that people send out. So here's the first one it says God handpicked you to bring sunshine into the world. Nice inside it says he definitely chose the right person for the job. Have a joy filled Easter and spring so evidently Easter has something to do with God picking you for some some purpose or another. This one has a lot of Easter eggs. Easter bunnies and Easter theme are kind of the theme of the cards and it says it must be Easter. The eggs are smiling. Hope you're smiling too. So Easter something about smiling eggs more Easter eggs says Easter time is here. Have a decorated egg a jelly bean or two that mostly have a happy heart this Easter and all through. I like this one because Easter is about eating. All right it's about eating. This one has two chocolate Easter bunnies and one of them has its ears you know kind of not quite fully there. And it says what do you call a chocolate Easter bunny with his ears bitten off. The answer. A good start. Right. So Easter is about eating bunnies. Here's an egg and it says happy Easter to someone special. They don't hatch them like you anymore. This is now playing the revenge of the giant chocolate bunny. All right. And there's this giant chocolate bunny in the cityscape and the chocolate bunny is holding a person that is going on

[00:02:47] And the chocolate bunny says I think I'll start with the toes.

[00:02:51] No. Maybe the ears. Maybe an alternate ear to ear toe. Happy Easter. This one says it's Eastern Time it's springtime too and all the world seems fresh and new thinking of you on Easter and wishing you all the lovely things that make springtime so special. So evidently Easter is about the weather. It's about what season of the year it happens to be. This is happy Easter Happy Spring. It combines the two. Thinking of you and Easter is here. Wishing a happy day for you all the year through. And then another chocolate Easter bunny. Happy Easter with lots of love. If love could be delivered in baskets Easter Day a hundred baskets could hold this love that comes your way. So Easter is about sending people baskets of love evidently. Here's more eggs. And it says Easter brings many happy thoughts and best of all thoughts of you. How special you are. Happy Easter. I did find two religious Easter cards so I kind of got a little bit encouraged by that. The first one has a bible on it which is always a good sign. And it says with with Easter wishes and prayers that your life be filled with the Lord's word and love today and always.

[00:04:03] Kind of an element. OK. And then the last one also a religious Easter card is in the shape of an egg though and it says this Easter has a message. All right. Finally Easter has a message I want to hear it. We go. Easter has a message of great meaning yes it's important to the earth in the beauty of springtime back to springtime and the glory of rebirth.

[00:04:25] All right inside it says bless you with joy as you see beauty of spring bless you with hope as you reaffirm the message of Easter.

[00:04:34] Happy Easter 12 cards. Not one mention of Jesus not one mention of the Resurrection.

[00:04:44] Evidently for our culture. Easter is about Easter bunnies and baskets and springtime. And hats and love and chocolate and that sort of thing. And I think most of us that come to church on Easter Sunday know it's bigger than that we know it has something to do with the resurrection. But for many people we may not know why. What's the big deal about the resurrection anyway. That's where we're going today. And what I want you to see is this Easter is good and beautiful and true. In fact it's the most good beautiful and true fact ever. Easter is relevant. It's not just about something that happened way over there 2000 years ago. It's relevant today and that's why I chose the Epistle passage. It's life changing today. It's powerful today. So I want to say three things about Easter if you're an outline fill or enter here we go. The first one is this.

[00:05:34] What do you say Easter Easter says yes your faith is true. Now you know if you know something is true what you tend to do is deep down in your soul your soul says yes it's true. I read about a church in Boston a few years ago that people were coming like you did today for Easter services. And there was a big black ribbon blocking the entrance to the church and there was a saint a sign beside it that said this due to the sudden death of our beloved founder and pastor. Our Easter services have been cancelled.

[00:06:10] Evidently because of the death of the pastor of that church a few hours earlier they didn't feel like they could go on with the services and so they canceled it. What would you do if you would come across the parking lot today and across the the entrance was a big black ribbon that prohibited you from entering not because of my death or not because of the death of any high liner but because of the death of Jesus. Why would you do if there was scientific evidence that was discovered that Jesus never rose from the tomb. What if there was positive DNA that Jesus body had been found. Well scripturally what we ought to do if that ever happened and it never will but if it ever happened what we should do is put a black ribbon across the entrance of the church and cancel Easter service and cancel every other service because there'd be no reason to celebrate.

[00:06:58] And no person to worship Paul put it like this to the Corinthians he said if Christ has not been raised then our preaching is in vain. And your faith is in vain and we have been found misrepresenting God that's strong.

[00:07:13] Why put that strong. Because listen brothers and sisters Easter is the linchpin that holds everything together in Christianity everything stands or falls right here with what we celebrate today.

[00:07:28] What evidence do we have about Easter Well we don't have scientific evidence because there was no CSI Jerusalem back in the day. You know they didn't have DNA evidence. They couldn't take a swab or something. But we do have lots of historical evidence. For example we have a prediction and fulfillment prediction in the Old Testament about Jesus and fulfillment in the new in passage after passage after passage.

[00:07:54] We've got the Roman Empire the Roman Empire that knows how to kill people. They were masters at it. They knew how to kill them. They knew when someone was dead they knew how to put people in a tomb. They knew how to guard a tomb and they knew how to make sure that nothing ever happened.

[00:08:10] And yet they couldn't produce a body on Easter or any day thereafter.

[00:08:15] We also have the appearance of Jesus eyewitnesses that saw the resurrected Lord not one or two but in our passage were reading a little bit to five hundred and more and we had disciples who were Willie who knew the truth. If he was not dead they knew it. And yet they were willing to give their life for it.

[00:08:31] There is so much more historical evidence layer upon layer upon layer. But the point for today is this the evidence of Easter says yes. Your faith is true and you can't separate the resurrection of Jesus from the Gospel.

[00:08:47] Can I have an amen there. You can't say it's it's it's an optional doctrine. It is not important. Paul said this is the gospel I preach to you. Here we go ready. The Christ died according to the Scriptures that he was buried and that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures and that he appeared to Seif's the twelve and then more than five hundred brothers at one time most of whom were still alive. He wrote you see to be gospel centered to be a gospel saturated church. You can't lead the resurrection out now. There are some critics that don't believe the resurrection that seem to think that that somehow the people in the first century were stupid that they just didn't know what Death looked like. You know like I wonder if they are dead. Charlie do you think they're dead. I don't think could be dead. Let me tell you something. Death for them was in their face every day.

[00:09:37] You know for us that's not the case.

[00:09:39] We have professionals and handled dead bodies. We call people and they take care of that. And we might go view it or we might not go view the body. We don't want to talk about or deal with death. They handled the body. They knew what death was.

[00:09:54] They knew that dead people stayed dead. And if there was a resurrection it would be a game changer. And there were people back then that believe that one day there there would be a resurrection. Not everybody believe that for example the Sagit sees the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. That's why they were sad.

[00:10:14] You see that's the best joke I got so just let it out.

[00:10:19] Just laugh right there.

[00:10:21] The Pharisees did the Pharisees believed in resurrection one day. They believed in a good God who would one day make everything right. But they hadn't seen it yet. And then comes Jesus and Jesus in his death and resurrection deals with the problem of death once and for all and has always had a new creation project for all of us because the resurrection says yes your faith is true.

[00:10:44] It says Jesus is who he claimed to be. It says Jesus did accomplish what he said he would. It says that Jesus was who the Prophet said would come. Jesus will be true to everything he said. I think whether you're a Christian or not most people know the saying help me with it you shall know the truth and the truth. Will Set You Free. Everybody knows that saying the problem is the world takes it completely out of context. We see it on billboards. You can go to universities and in over libraries you can see etched in stone. The truth will set you free. Does anybody have a wild guess who said that.

[00:11:22] Anybody know who said that Jesus Jesus.

[00:11:27] He's the author of that saying Jesus said it in John Chapter 8 verse 32. The problem is the world thinks that somehow by themselves those six words are magical. You should know the truth and the truth will set you free.

[00:11:41] But you see that's not the way it works. Jesus said in John 832 and Johnny 31 tells us how it works. Listen to how it leads into that Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him.

[00:11:53] If you continue in my word you are truly my disciples and you shall know the truth and say it the truth will set you free. All the difference. Context

[00:12:04] Makes in context is not some nebulous truth that set you free. Instead it's knowing Jesus continuing in his word being his disciples that set you free because he is freedom itself. So what do you say Easter Easter says yes.

[00:12:25] Your faith is true but it also says secondly wow your future is your forever is beautiful. Can we be clear about what what the resurrection is the resurrection is not life after death.

[00:12:41] Think about that for a minute. Resurrection is not. Doesn't mean life after death as N.T. Wright put it. It means life after life after death.

[00:12:50] You see if you believe in a resurrection what you believe is that a person in a body a physical body died and they were dead for some period of time and then something happened later and their body came back to life again with new endowed life after being dead. So this is important because resurrection doesn't mean you die and you go to heaven. It means the body dies and a resurrected body comes back to life again. So to say that Jesus resurrected is not to say that Jesus died on the cross and went to heaven. Is to say that Jesus died on the cross went to the tomb and his body came back to life again. Asked me why is that important. I'm glad you asked here's why. Because if Jesus died and came back to life again if you are in Jesus you will too. And it's also important because if Jesus physical body died and your physical body will die and Jesus got a new resurrected body in Jesus you too will get a resurrected body.

[00:13:55] You know sometimes we say about a person who is dying of cancer. Their bodies wasting away. We say you know she's just a shell of her former self. You ever heard somebody say that or maybe you said that she's just a shell of her former self. But you know in Jesus because of the resurrection you can say I'm just a shell of my future self.

[00:14:17] That's the reality. You and I right now are just a shell of our future self because all that holds death and all that Holz disease is forever defeated you will be more yourself than you could ever imagine.

[00:14:29] And if that's not beautiful I don't know what is.

[00:14:32] Look at it like this scientists tell us that our bodies are always in flux right. In fact they say and notice the quotation marks we get a new body about every seven years now and I think about that for a minute. You know roughly every seven years things have changed so your skin is always flaking away right. And you get new skin and your bones are growing and your hair changes for those you still have hair your hair changes down through the years. Mine just went away. You your organs change as you go through life your body changes you get a new body. Who here would want the same body that you had when you came out of the womb anybody for that one. No no. We're glad our body changes.

[00:15:12] The first law of thermodynamics says that no Masser energy is ever destroyed it merely changes form.

[00:15:20] So take for example you have a piece of wood and around a campfire and you burn that wood. Well some of that is not gone. Some of it becomes heat and others deteriorates it becomes ashes it just takes on a new form. It's not destroyed when the lake dries up and the water is gone it evaporates into the air only to come back to fall to the earth again some day it just changes form. We can seed in creation all the time why can we not accepted in the spiritual world.

[00:15:49] You know Harry Emerson Fosdick said can it be that God is the most unscrupulous waster in the universe. That God creates great personalities simply to utterly throw them away. Paul's answer was no of course not. Paul said Behold I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep but we shall all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye. At the last trumpet. Listen to this for this parish show but nobody must put on the imperishable and his mortal body must put on immortality. You say man Paul sounds great.

[00:16:28] I love that it's so encouraging. How do we know it's just not wishful thinking. Here's the answer. The resurrection of Jesus.

[00:16:36] That's how we know it's true. You can say today wow.

[00:16:41] My future my forever is beautiful. Your life doesn't end after you take your final breath. Your life does not end after your heart stopped beating and your brain waves cease. It didn't for Jesus and it won't for you either in Christ is that not good news. Can I have an amen. People say Pastor we need to get more people to commit to Jesus.

[00:17:04] If we could just get people to commit to Jesus I think we need to get people to know Jesus because when they know Jesus and know who he is and what he's done the commitment will come. Brian Zohn wrote Our task as a church is not to protest the world into a certain moral conformity but to attract the world to the saving beauty of Christ. Can you hear that again.

[00:17:29] What's our job as a church. Our job is not to protest the world into a certain moral conformity but our job is to attract the world to the saving beauty of Christ. So what do you say. Easter Easter says Wow your forever is beautiful all because of the Resurrection.

[00:17:46] Let me do one more Easter also says thanks. Your life is good. You know sometimes when we talk about Easter and the resurrection resurrection it comes across like this. There really it's about pie in the sky by and by when we die. It's about someday but not now. This last January Jane and I went down to Palm Springs area and we hung out with some of the Highline snowbirds that go down there for the winter. And it made me salivate for retirement and then a few years and like wow this is this is the life they have son down there is great you know. And while we're down there reading Virginia and some folks took us to a Pioneer Town. Now Pioneertown is a mock up city of a Western city. So it's in western movies like Cisco Kid how many remember Cisco Kid are either still some Cisco Cisco Kid and it was great. And so there was a fake bank in a fake diner in a fake jail in a fake saloon and outside the fake saloon was this sign. It said this free beer tomorrow

[00:18:49] And of course it's funny because tomorrow becomes today and it's never tomorrow. And so there's no free beer ever.

[00:18:56] All right. Some think the resurrection is like that.

[00:19:00] Some think the resurrection is fictitious some some fictitious tomorrow that never really gets here. That's not the promise of the resurrection folks. The resurrection is also for right now. Paul wrote to the flip and said I want to know the power of the resurrection. You notice I chose Colossians for the text rather than a gospel this year because in Colossians Paul believes the resurrection has a direct impact on how you live your life right now. Listen to it again. If then you have been here it is raised with Christ.

[00:19:31] So if you've been raised with Christ to some things should be different in your life. He goes on what should be different.

[00:19:37] Seek the things that are above not the things that are on Earth.

[00:19:40] Set your mind on things that are above for you have died in your life is hidden with Christ in God in Christ who is your life appears.

[00:19:47] Then you'll also appear with him in glory and he goes on through the rest of Colossians story to tell us the ways that our lives should be different because we are in the resurrected Jesus Harry Houdini member Harry Houdini Harry Houdini said I'm going to die and when I die I'm going to rise again. Come back to life. Harry Houdini did not do that. You know what.

[00:20:12] Coming back to life is a really big deal if someone ever says to you hey in just a little bit I'm going to die and I'm going to be dead for three days. And after three days I'm going to come back to life again. If they actually do it listen to whatever they say next

[00:20:34] Easter has implications for how you live your life today. Joyce Holliday tells about a teacher whose job was in a big city to go into the schools and tutor kids while they were in the hospital so they wouldn't fall behind in their lessons. Kind of a cool job. So she got this one assignment to go to certain hospital of a certain room because this boy this young boy was in the hospital and the teacher assigned to help him with nouns and adverbs. And so she went into the hospital and he was very sick and very depressed. And she said Hi I'm the hospital teacher and I'm here to help you with nouns and add verbs. And so she went through the lesson and she said I'll be back tomorrow and the next day the nurse stopped the teacher in the hall and said What did you do to that child.

[00:21:22] He's a completely different child. Now he's fighting back. The infection now he's responding to treatment.

[00:21:30] Now he's decided to live later on the voice said through tears. I realized when the hospital teacher came and she said that she was going to help me with nouns and adverbs that they wouldn't stand a teacher to help a dying boy with nouns and adverbs. You and I can celebrate life right now because like that boy we have hope. We're going to live forever because he lives.

[00:21:57] Remember the chorus because he lives I can face tomorrow because he lives all fear is gone because I know he holds a future and life talking about this life right now not just heaven and life is worth living just because he lives Easter says Thanks Jesus. Thank you that in your life. My life now is forever. Good. You know sometimes people can say something and just one word can bum you out and ruin your life. Just one sentence for example the doctor says the patient is incurable. The sports announcer says the game is unwinnable. The foreman says the quota is unobtainable. The insurance adjuster says the car is unrepairable. The judge says the marriage is irreconcilable.

[00:22:44] But then comes Jesus and the news changes from settled bad news to forever good news because Jesus says the resurrection is unstoppable.

[00:22:55] Amen. And the implications of that filter into our lives every day.

[00:23:01] Easter says yes our faith is true. Yes our forever is beautiful. And yes your life is good. Yes. Wow.

[00:23:11] Thank you Jesus. As we come to the communion table today I don't know if you've ever taken the time to read first Corinthians 15.

[00:23:19] It's a it's a chapter and it goes through all of the the joys if the resurrection is true and all the problems if it's not true all of the dire consequences if Jesus did not raise and at the very last verse of this long chapter 58 verses and the very last verse after making the case for Easter Paul did not say OK church now fight about that OK church just forget about that and file it away. Don't worry about it. Now after Paul made the case for Easter this is what he said. Therefore my beloved brothers and sisters be steadfast immovable always abounding in the work of the Lord.

[00:24:02] Knowing that the Lord your labour is not in vain. What does that mean. It means the implications of Easter filter out into our lives every day.

[00:24:11] It matters what you do with your life because the tomb is empty during World War II. There were a group of soldiers that were being held as prisoners of war and among the captured was a chaplain named Macdonald.

[00:24:26] But they called him Padre Mac and another prisoner had possessed a secret crystal radio that he used to listen to the BBC and one day as he listened to that secret radio he heard an announcement that the day had come and the man turned to Padre Mack and simply said three words. They have come. Padre Mac knew exactly what that meant and spread the word throughout the camp. And it changed everything. The man in the camp were electrified. They were laughing and slapping each other on the back. And they were celebrating. Everything changed. Why. Because they believe those three words they have come understand something. They're still in a prisoner of war camp. There are still guards with machine guns. There's still a fence with barbed wire and searchlights and they could have ignored the message from the BBC and continue to be hopeless and dejected but instead they chose to believe the words they have come and it changed everything. The same is true for us today on Easter. You can choose to believe the words he is risen say it with me. He is risen. And if you believe that no matter what's going on in your own prison camp no matter how many guards have machine guns aimed at you and searchlights on you and fences around you you can live a different life. Because you know it's true that he is risen the cross happened paying the price. That's what we celebrate at this table. The resurrection happened conquering death. And so now Paul would say to us well Highline. Our beloved brothers and sisters be steadfast

[00:26:14] Movable always abounding in the work of the Lord.

[00:26:17] Knowing that in the Lord your labours never in vain he has risen. I believe

[00:26:24] You.

